## What is an Afrimaker? 

Afrimakers will choose to do things that allow themselves to actually
have an impact on the world. Because of this, they will want to make
things. They will start making and fixing things and put effort into
improving their skills every day.

They will therefore put a lot of effort into learning.

Because of their passion and determination, little by little, they
will share with the world the things they make. They will have
acquired new skills because of their innate desire to make things, and
their ability to complete the projects that they begin.


Afrimakers live by the idea of sharing and exchanging knowledge. 

They spend a lot of their time engaging in conversations with other
people who are smarter, more successful, more skilled, more
experienced than them. People they will learn from.

This can be done in two ways. One can read books written by such
people, gaining direct access to their thoughts, or one can meet them,
talk to them, work with or near them. This will help them know what it
is like to be at that level, and what it takes to get there.

Afrimakers will need to hone excellent observational skills, to notice
when things are happening, and pattern recognition skills, to notice
what kinds of things those are. Most of the kind of learning that
happens when one is watching a master at work is implicit.

One isn't told what to do, or what to learn, one simply watches and
notes their behaviour. This is why Afrimakers need to be vigilant.

Afrimakers are mistrustful of authority in all of its forms. They will
therefore want to learn most things by themselves, without waiting to
be told. Of course, everybody needs guidance in what to learn at some
point, but it is the Afrimaker who will take the initiative to ask for
it, and be conscientious enough to consider that the advice may be
exactly what they need to move forward.

While Afrimakers are learners at heart, they understand that they are
more likely to understand how to do things if they make an attempt to
teach them. They should therefore find new ways, reasons, and people
to teach whatever they know, to even a little bit of detail. This,
they selfishly know, will be more beneficial to them than to their
students, so they train themselves to become more efficient teachers.
This will involve teaching their students how to explain the concepts
that they are taught, and those that they learn by themselves. This
will enable the Afrimaker's students to be excellent teachers, who
will understand the things they learn and the process by which this
happens, and teach this process to other people. This seemingly
self-propagating process is the heart of what the Afrimaker does in
solitude, and in their community.

Afrimakers will have observed how their most masterful teachers
behaved, and realized that this is the core of what makes a great
communicator. They will want to maximize their effectiveness as
teachers, and therefore as learners. This means that they will want to
practice communication skills like writing and speaking. What better
way to master these skills than to learn and train other people in
them?

Afrimakers should have incredible imaginations, and will have to learn
how to nurture it, so as not to lose it, as it is a learnable skill
that can be mastered. This process requires a periodic immersion in
alien worlds. By this I mean that they will need to read science
fiction, or history. There is no greater bounty of alien worlds than
in those that can be imagined by other people, and past societies.

Afrimakers will need to recognize that perfection does not happen in a
day , if ever, and that their initial idea of perfection will be wrong
and possibly infeasible. They will therefore need to learn the value
of iteration. Assessing feedback on their projects, going back to the
drawing board every night to re-evaluate what went wrong, assess the
value of fixing it, and waking up the next day to do that work. They
need to understand that yes, things will go wrong, and prepare
themselves to either move forward or take things slower as they
evaluate the value of their work.

Afrimakers will need to harness the culture around them. The local
traditions. The "old" that they grew up with. People respond more
positively to things, phenomena, and cultural processes that they are
already familiar with. Finding ways to tap into these cherished
traditions while still providing solutions that bring positive change
is a sure way to successful making.

The Afrimaker optimizes for serendipitous encounters. They should
understand that personal paths are not always straight, and that they
should be watchful of the things they experience. If they see
unpleasant familiar patterns too often, they should either change
location, base, friends, attitude, or at least schedule. This is
because people are involved in almost all of those things, and there
is nothing more important than the chance to meet new people who might
change your life in wonderful ways.

An Afrimaker builds things. Communities. Families. Lives.

An Afrimaker creates and nurtures sustainable growth. They seek
balance in their lives. This will cause them to observe societies
which can increase the probability of the success of the projects that
they do. They understand that not all societies are created equal, and
some will have that ability more than others. How to create growth in
such a situation? This requires an awareness of the fundamental
problem of humanity. How to educate our children? How shall they know
what it is that can be done in the world? Which children should have
this privilege?

Afrimakers are experimenters and empiricists. They understand the
value of measurement, as well as the fact that it is possible to
measure almost anything. They thus spend significant effort learning
what to measure, and in fact, their projects are entirely based on
such measurements. They dont, and shouldn't start with big ideas

This is not to say that people should not imagine. Make it a
principle, that whichever culture you represent at any given time, to
try to reimagine the things you take for granted, as a culture.
Perhaps you could write works of fiction, thus feeding other minds
with alien worlds.

Afrimakers are not afraid of failure The concept of failure is an
impossibility in a world where communities exist to aid others in
their progress, and to learn to turn off the voice in the back of the
head that causes people to not do things because they're afraid of
failing is one of the most important lessons in the journey to
becoming an Afrimaker.

Afrimakers know that the challenges they choose to tackle are bigger
than them and they should know that these efforts are part of a
marathon and not a race.

An Afrimaker recycles the items used by themselves, and others. They
imagine ways to facilitate reusability in all their projects, to
minimize waste.

The Afrimaker tries to apply the scientific process. This means that
they should be diligent in measuring the things that they determine
are worthy of measurement. They value the time spent in research, and
can therefore spend time looking for already-created solutions. They
attempt to understand how the structure of the world requires
statistical and computational thinking. They try to propagate the
value of communicating results, processes and their intuition, by
example.

They are prepared for anything.

They try to understand the big picture in all things they encounter.
They therefore try to listen to others when they notice unusual
perceptive ability in their words.

An Afrimaker is, or might be considered as, crazy. I mean this in the
sense that the world is like a spectrum of beliefs, and the beliefs
that an Afrimaker holds are so far outside the mainstream, that a
majority of people are more likely to call them crazy than anything
else.

An Afrimaker understands and embraces the diversity inherent in the
universe. Every single human being has an entire world inside of their
minds, that most don't communicate. There are more communities than
can be counted, and more are being formed every day. Economic
diversity is the future of our civilisation, and is the reason most
businesses that do survive, actually continue to thrive. Diversity of
belief is one reason our social world is so rich, with analogies for
the complexities in our world. Diversity of life is the reason we even
exist.

The Afrimaker is humble in the face of reason, evidence, and the
efforts of other valued people.

Afrimakers are grounded. They have their feet on the ground, and their
heads in the clouds. They understand, or make concerted attempts to
understand, what there is in the world, for those are our tools. They
then have the tools to imagine what there can be.

An Afrimaker understands that the big picture is made up of lots of
little pictures, and there are costs to their lifestyle, way of doing
things, and even their success. These costs can be to their families,
their local communities, their friends, and their acquaintances.

The Afrimaker cares about nature. The physical world is not a
contradiction, and balance is the most important thing that can
possibly be maintained. When one changes things, they must be prepared
for both the positive and negative consequences thereof.

The Afrimaker isn't a bore. They are playful with their work, even if
it has serious implications. This is because the process of discovery
of knowledge, of new methods, even if it is difficult or sometimes
under unfavourable conditions, is a very invigorating process.
Forgetting this is the reason people end up jaded with their own work.

They are community based. They understand that for any project to grow
sustainably, it needs to be used by someone. That it needs to satisfy
the needs of someone other than themselves. This requires communities
to be built around whatever they work on. If someone attempts this
diligently, yet still fails to build a community around it, then maybe
the project isn't worthwhile except as a learning experience. This is
one of the crucial measurements in the point about empiricism I made
earlier.

Afrimakers are non-conformist.

Afrimakers are inquisitive. They want to understand the world around
them, and the work of the people around them.

Afrimakers value efficiency. No wasted effort, space, life.

Afrimakers are culturally aware. They try to understand, historically,
the intercultural effects of various technologies and how to navigate
the same in their lives and the communities around them.

Afrimakers are reliable. They create progress by moving forward,
setting themselves up to deliver on their promises to the people that
expect results from them, and not being late for appointments.

Afrimakers are focused, in the sense that they can shut out the world
around them and train their conscious minds towards solving a
particular problem, or any other thing that needs to be done. They
feel no guilt about this, and it is this habit that brings them closer
to people like this.

Afrimakers understand how contagious ideas are created, or at least
tries to create them, thus learning how the process of virality
occurs.

Afrimakers understand that in every single successful venture, there's
a process involved that corrects itself. Afrimakers are
process-oriented, interested more in the quality of every interaction
and the impact thereof, than the goal itself, which should be the
end-result of a well-designed process.

Afrimakers are connectors. They connect people who seem compatible in
certain projects. They connect the dots in seemingly disparate
phenomena. This is because they spend lots of time in books learning
about the patterns in our world.

Afrimakers are incredibly passionate about something or someone. Of
special interest would be their passion for knowledge.

Afrimakers are intimate with the concept of creative destruction. To
create new things, sometimes you have to modify someone's work. This
is a kind of destruction. Some systems have to be destroyed for others
to be created, because resources are scarce on this little island of
life.

Afrimakers are responsible for the choices that they make. They must
understand the costs of their lifestyle, and try to strike a balance
between giving and taking away. There's a further idea of what is
"enough".

Afrimakers are decision-makers. They understand how, to create things
that are worthwhile, some decisions will have to be made for the good
of the future of a project, and not necessarily for the good of the
people involved in them. These decisions are usually very hard, and
they hurt. This is a part of being passionate about people, and about
caring so much for the process of creation, community curation, and
the spreading of positive memes.

Afrimakers think global, but build local. With practice, their ideas
will be more and more customizable to specific communities, even
though the original concept was created to solve a tiny problem.

Afrimakers are multi-skilled. This is an offshoot of their (not
necessarily positive) tendency to want to do everything themselves.
They will therefore know how to learn how to do things themselves very
quickly, and maybe how to teach this process.

Afrimakers are aware that solutions built from the "blue sky" are
almost always wrong. This is because they will attempt to combine the
things that existed before. Because they really care about creating
technology with value for someone, they will design it for the user.
This means more interactions with the people who are the inteded users
of whatever project they are using.

Afrimakers have an internal locus of self. This means that the impetus
to do everything they do comes from within. They are self-directed,
and can work without supervision. They actually prefer it, or
eventually learn to do so.

They are colourful. :)


* Thanks to Stefania Druga, Martha Njeri Chelimo, and Ahmed Bastawy for reading drafts of this document. *
